I see testing, testing, one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four.
Testing, one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four.
This is Thursday, March the 8th, I believe.
And I'm at 2405.
3405.
3405 Parkway Terrace.
Terrace, Parkway Terrace.
In Bryan.
And I have the honor and pleasure of chatting with Dr. Claude Goswick.
the former director of the campus health center.
Is that the right facility?
That's right.
To begin with, Claude, to introduce yourself to any reader or hearer,
Describe your growing up, background, school, where, when.
Just tell all about yourself before you came to College Station.
I was born and raised in Durham, in Durham County, North Carolina, and went to schools there, including kindergarten, because when you mentioned kindergarten, I couldn't help but recall my own kindergarten days.
and went to Duke all eight years, four of undergraduate, four of medical school.
My mother was a nurse and worked at the hospital in the private surgical clinic, so I didn't even need a car, and I rode out with her and back.
And then I...
Well, I received a notice from the draft board to the effect that because I had been deferred because of being in school, and I received a notice from them that I should get a commission or I would be drafted.
I did.
I was lucky enough to get six months.
No, no, I beg your pardon.
I left something out.
Probably one of the most interesting periods of my whole life.
And that was when I was in Cincinnati in what was then called a rotating internship.
It was at General Hospital.
And I absolutely loved it.
The people were wonderful.
I worked harder than I ever had before in my life or than I ever have since.
But I loved every minute of it.
And if I had the stamina, I would do it again.
But anyway, then I came back to Duke in what I thought I wanted to practice, and that was pediatrics.
I had six months of residency there in pediatrics.
And for one thing, I realized that was not for me.
I didn't really, really like it all that well.
So I decided that was a good time to go into the service.
And I'd always heard that the Air Force was nice to be in.
And so I did.
And sure enough, it was nice because I was stationed in Bermuda.
And this is when?
This is in, oh gee, 58.
59, if I, no, no, that's, yeah, it could be, no, no, medical school in 55, 56 in Cincinnati, 57, would have been probably 58, 58.
I was there for two and a half years.
I met Wasey there.
We were married there.
And we honeymooned from there, courtesy, incidentally, of the Air Force.
Didn't cost us a penny.
Oh, I see.
Spell your wife's name.
Louise, L-O-U-I-S-E.
But I call her Weezy, W-E-Z-I-E.
People can't do that because there's no Z in Louise, but that's the way we do it.
But anyway, we honeymooned from there and we went, had two weeks in Europe, went all over the place, spent very little money.
I think I saw most of Europe through the lens of my camera and she through the lens of her
movie camera.
But when we got home, her brother-in-law, her sister's husband, and her sister, we babysat for them, so to speak.
The kids were young teenagers.
And they took the same trip.
He was a lieutenant colonel, but he was deputy base commander.
I was a lowly captain.
And we had no trouble whatsoever with connections.
We were flying space available.
They had all the trouble in the world.
But they had no choice but to fly the same way that we did.
Okay, then we came back through Charleston to North Carolina.
I didn't know where I wanted to practice, but I knew by that time I wanted to do just general medicine, because that's what I'd done in Bermuda all that time.
And we started out from Durham driving with intent of coming to Fort Worth, Wheezy's home, birthplace home, and stopping everywhere along the way that looked nice or that we'd heard about, looking in the yellow pages and seeing how many physicians they had compared to the population.
The first one we got to that we really could have been seriously interested in was Marshall, Texas.
But we thought very long and hard about that.
But we decided to go on to Fort Worth, which is mother's home then.
And then we did the same thing going back.
We ended up in Hendersonville in North Carolina, western North Carolina.
And wonderful, wonderful place.
It was in the fall.
As a matter of fact, it was Labor Day.
And the weather was such that in the little motel we were staying in, the heat came on automatically at night.
And it was September 2nd.
I'll never forget it.
Anyway, it was a very nice thing.
And they had the annual Apple Festival there, so we watched the parade.
Lots and lots of people.
We, so we thought, oh, this is wonderful.
You know, a little town.
They don't roll up the sidewalks when it gets dark and that sort of thing.
And to a certain extent, we found out that it was a little different.
But it was a very, very cosmopolitan area.
People there had a fair amount of money.
They had traveled a lot.
They were interesting to talk to and to work with and so forth.
And I set up a general practice of medicine there and was there until 73.
Now, what year was that, did you?
That would have been, oh, boy.
Fifty.
I was there for 15 years and we left in 88.
So that.
No, you didn't leave there in 88.
I don't mean 88, I beg your pardon, in 73.
If that makes whatever that makes.
So it would be 58.
Yeah.
I had bought a practice in medicine that was already established, so that was a help.
And was just able to keep my head above water, so to speak, making payments on the loan that I got to buy the practice.
But finally did get above water, so to speak.
And by that time then, I had a heart attack.
A real good bona fide heart attack.
And after that, realized that was in about...
I was 38 years old, I think.
And then I realized then I'd have to start cutting down on my practice.
So I decided it would be obstetrics.
I wouldn't do obstetrics.
I still made house calls because all physicians did then.
But I got over my coronary fine, did very well.
And got a letter from Hal Poe, who was director of the medical center down here, the health center on campus, in 73, you know, in 72.
Met with him in Hendersonville.
He came up there because he was from Greenville, South Carolina.
So we met in Hendersonville.
How did you know him before that?
How did you come to get that letter?
Good question.
I really don't remember.
I may have answered or classified Ed in a medical journal.
I don't remember precisely.
Anyway, I met him, enjoyed meeting him, and it was almost a conclusion right then and there that I would come down here and check the place out and make a decision.
I thought, since I was working fairly hard, I thought perhaps this would be the obvious answer to my problem, that I would
work regular hours and get regular paychecks that I could depend on and not have the hassle that I had up there.
Well, did I ever?
Was I ever mistaken?
because I worked longer and harder than I think I ever have.
At least I got the regular paychecks.
As far as you recall, how did he describe the situation here?
What did he tell you it was going to be like?
He told me, and I already knew about the fact that it was primarily
at least had been primarily a military institute, that it had plenty of females now, that it wasn't really agricultural and mechanical.
I remember him saying that.
And told me, it was about, I think he said about 15,000, 16,000 people then.
And he didn't particularly care for College Station, so he wasn't very, very flattering about that.
But in a lot of ways, I think he was right.
How did he describe the people who were here?
The people as being very, very nice.
You know, he was, I didn't know it then, and he didn't tell me, but he was on the verge of a divorce, which is why he was leaving.
And I didn't even know that, but at the time he was sleeping in the health center on a mattress on the floor, wasn't even living at home.
But he loved the people.
He loved the people.
And he loved the students.
Did, as far as you know, was he the one that made the decision of who his replacement would be?
He knew he would be retiring, or at least that he would be leaving here.
He assumed at that time that I would be, would take his place, would be Director of the Health Center.
But he didn't, he was not the one who appointed me.
John Colas was the one who appointed me.
And it was not, I suppose Hal was here for,
Oh, four or five months after I came.
And so I was just on the staff.
And we worked beautifully together at the old building, which I loved.
I loved it.
Right.
Describe when you came to visit.
your impression?
Oh, I was very, very, very favorably impressed.
I really was.
I never had, I had not had any experience since I left Duke with this sort of an environment.
And consequently,
Didn't really have anything to compare it to.
Duke is entirely different from this, as you perfectly well know.
But I fell in love with it, really, right off the bat.
I knew this was what I wanted.
Did you and your wife drive over?
Yes, yes.
See, she's from Fort Worth, so she had the— Did anyone show you all around?
Well, Hal and his wife did.
We met, I forget her name right off the, anyway.
Anyway they showed us around.
Frances Goff showed us around.
Who was she?
Frances was then and only oh maybe five years or so ago retired as Director of Nurses at the Health Center.
I loved the old building.
I really did.
Describe it.
It was plenty adequate then, there being maybe 16,000-odd students.
It was run down.
The plaster was off the walls.
The nurses themselves had repainted the interior of it several times.
Nobody helped them.
They just did it themselves.
There was one big ward upstairs, which is one I was used to at Cincinnati, a big ward with curtains, of course, between the beds.
And there were a few private rooms.
So that was my element that I knew about.
and had some very, very interesting experiences.
I'm already now on the staff.
Wait, wait, let's still stay with the... Okay.
With the... Okay.
With the visiting experience.
With the visiting.
Now... I remember less of that than I do of the other thing.
And I'm assuming that someone showed you all around and you spent the night somewhere, MSC?
Yes.
Was it the MSC?
I suppose so.
It had to be.
What did the campus see?
Because I have spent the night in the MSC, and there's no other time that I would have had the occasion to do that.
What was your impression of the campus?
Oh, I thought it was beautiful.
I really did.
And do you remember whom you met on that first trip?
I met John, of course, met Perry.
Who?
Perry, Howard Perry.
Howard Perry.
Who is it?
Collin Perry.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think I met Maylon Sutherland then.
I know I met Carolyn Adair, although she was not director of student activities then.
Because Koldis would have been comparatively new at that point.
He was comparatively new.
As a matter of fact, he is about my age, and I remember doing a physical exam on him for workman's compensation, which we did on all employees, old and new.
I hated that.
Nevertheless.
And it was made clear to you, I presume, that you would report directly to him?
Yes, yes.
And how did they officially make the offer of the position?
Was it by letter, by phone call, in conversation with him?
In all honesty, I don't remember a phone call or a letter.
There must have been a letter, which I certainly no longer have.
But I think there was sort of a consensus right then between all of us that I would be coming back.
Were there any key points of consideration or negotiation?
No, I think I made some assumptions about the working hours.
I assumed that they were 8 to 5 rather than 8 to 8.
And when they made the offer, this is the only dollar question I'm going to ask, what was the beginning salary?
I think it was about
35,000, 40,000 maybe, which was less than I was making in North Carolina.
But of course, I realized I'd have no expenses, I'd have no supplies, I'd have no salaries to pay.
So it really amounted to more.
And as it turned out, I got raises every year, as you know how things go.
As a matter of fact, at one time, I always made more money than John Colas did, that is on paper, on the budget.
And I talked with him about that one time and I thought, you, I really shouldn't be making more money than my boss is making.
And he said, let me take care of that and let me worry about that.
And so it never came up again.
Did he or anyone else in your early, either before you officially began or soon after, give you any directives, any guidelines?
No.
No, I think we, Hal and I talked enough and John and I talked enough to know that I was interested
and that I could probably do the job administratively as well as medically.
And I think we just all came to that conclusion.
I should remember that, shouldn't I?
But I don't.
Well, I think if there had been any real ironclad, you would have remembered.
And describe the, when you got here, describe the staff.
of the health center?
Dan, shoot, I forget his last name.
There were two more, two others of us.
MDs?
MDs.
We were grossly understaffed right from the very start.
Dan, Dan, Dan.
He died within a year.
And that left two of us.
So of course it was really desperate then.
We had to hire more people.
Unfortunately, at the rate or the salary that I was able, as director of the health center then, could offer new people, a prospective physician, I couldn't get anybody.
Well, I
I had no real choices.
I sort of had to take whoever applied.
Very few did.
But we at least finally got back up to about five on the staff when we moved into the new building, which was the next year.
What about nurses?
Nurse-wise, we were pretty, pretty well off.
We, because of the rapid, right then, the rapid growth,
The student population must have, oh, at least nearly doubled in the next few years.
We hired some nurses as well.
It was an excellent, excellent group of nurses.
They got along well together.
They worked well.
They worked well with the physicians.
The physicians, I'll be perfectly honest, did not work as well together or with everybody else.
Here I definitely won't name any names even though I can remember them and will probably remember them until I die.
They were, for the most part, I'm sure they felt as I had felt when I came, that I would be working less.
They expected to work less and they did work less.
I won't
I want to use the term lazy, but I'll be a little kinder than that.
They just sort of expected to work a few hours and did, and just simply would walk out.
Describe the normal routine.
Was there someone there on a shift?
Oh, yes.
Absolutely.
Always.
And usually it was me.
This is where I have to warn you that this may sound like bragging, but it's not bragging.
I wanted to make it all even.
I wanted everybody to do the same amount of work.
I didn't mind doing the administrative end of it, of course.
But I'm talking, when I say work, I'm thinking in terms of the daily process of seeing patients as one would in a private office.
That's what I wanted them to do.
And consequently, I had it set up such that all nights were covered all night long.
All weekends were covered.
all weekend long, most holidays when practically everybody but, what's the,
maintenance people and that sort of thing.
Everybody else got that vacation.
We were open.
We did close Christmas, but for a shorter period of time than they do now.
And I must say that changed very, very fast when I left.
Namely, that they started taking all kinds of holidays.
They stopped taking any night call.
They stopped taking any weekend call.
No, no.
There was a transition period wherein they hired a private agency to do a night and weekend call.
That's what it was.
And now, to my knowledge, that's all stopped.
They don't do it anymore.
When you got here.
The thing about it is, and I want to say this, the reason I say that I did it is because it was something that had to be done, and I could always, not always, depend on its getting done.
Did it mean that an M.D.
was present there during the night, or was the home on call?
Home on call.
Although the first two weeks that I was down here, I lived in the health center.
I had nowhere else to live.
And so I was there all the time.
But no, it was being on call all night and all weekend.
And I thought we were going to rotate, you know, as evenly as possible the schedule.
Describe some of your first Aggie real-world experiences.
Probably in the old health center, the most vivid ones.
I remember there was an elevator.
service at the health center was on the second floor.
And I suppose, I don't know, that that was built to make sure that the nurses were not on the first floor at night, which is in fact the case.
So, of course, we always knew when someone was coming up the elevator.
And I'll never forget when I, one of the first few nights I spent on campus, I looked out the window about three or four o'clock in the morning, and I saw this tremendous, tremendous billow of smoke, what I thought was smoke.
It was vapor, of course, from the air conditioners, but there was no noise.
There were no sirens.
And I thought, well, no, the place is not really burning down.
And so I finally realized that.
But I also remember I was sitting one evening eating supper.
They always brought it up to me because the kitchen was in the basement.
A storm came up and I was sitting there at the desk eating.
The window was up a little bit like that.
I really, I guess pure stupidity now as I look back on it, didn't realize that my feet were in water that deep, that it was leaking in.
So that was an interesting experience.
I loved the ward experience.
I really did.
Let me think, if something outstanding that I can think of occurred as we were over at the old health center, I'll let you know.
But, oh, we always served ourselves.
It was illegal.
We weren't supposed to go in the kitchen, of course.
The health codes disallowed that, but we did it anyway.
They had pots this big and this deep, and we went into the kitchen and served ourselves.
We had three cooks then, wonderful, wonderful people.
They stayed with us the whole time when we moved.
We ate in a little dining area, not an ordinary-shaped room, but the roof slanted severely like that, down to the old front steps of the health center, which were never used then.
And there was a family of skunks out there.
And we could see these skunks playing in the hole.
There was ivy, of course, on the ground.
And we could see them and watch them grow.
And we could see the baby skunks get up on the edge of their hole and teeter-totter like that.
And not really, they couldn't walk yet well, and we would see them teeter-totter, and then they'd fall into the hole.
But we saw that family of skunks grow up.
Now this building was just north of the YMCA.
Is that right?
Going towards Cebiza?
North.
It was right across the street from the fountain and where the old president's home was.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or Cebiza.
Yeah.
Cebiza.
And how long was it before you learned what the nickname, Aggie nickname was for it?
I suppose I must have learned that very early on.
But I didn't take offense about it.
No, I didn't take offense at it at all.
Now the official title was the Texas A&M Health Center?
Student Health Center.
And it could, its task was to care for the health
students.
Students.
That was my interpretation.
I had some experiences that you may or may not be interested in which involved taking care of other than students.
Of course.
And of course Jack Williams and
What's Vandiver's first name?
Frank.
Frank Vandiver.
But it also went down to, well, football games of course.
We operated all the first aid stations there.
And the one thing about that aspect of it that bothered me greatly was trying to take care of the board members when they were meeting.
It irked me.
Share any of those experiences.
Oh, they would actually send over, send messengers over to the health center and say that they needed a physician over there, that someone had a cold or something like that.
And occasionally they would come over to the health center.
It happened seldom enough that I didn't refuse and I didn't say, sorry, this is just for students.
Did some faculty and staff ever come over?
At my discretion, uh-huh.
Yeah.
I invited them.
Oh, okay.
But there was not a problem of a bunch coming?
Oh, of abuse?
No.
Absolutely not.
As a matter of fact, Perry, for one in particular, always, although he
John had assigned him the job of sort of overseeing how the health center operated.
He was one who didn't like to appear at the health center.
He didn't like it to appear that he...